Hello YouTube. Hello Brian. Hello Pat. Hey. Hello. Hey, welcome to the channel. Everyone
out in the live stream. Thanks for being here. As always, we love having you around. Now,
let's go ahead and kick this off. Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver Python
news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 280 recorded April 19th, 2022.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
- And I'm Brian Okken.
- And I'm Pat Decker.
- Welcome Pat, it's great to have you here.
- Well, thanks for having me on.
- Yeah, it's really exciting.
You and I were chatting a bit about
less new programming languages a bit over email
and yeah, it'd be fun to just have you come on
and share some of the things that you're passionate about
and whatnot.
Tell people a bit about yourself.
I got started with computers way back in the day.
High school, I had an Apple II computer at school.
Eventually got a Commodore 64 at home.
I did Pascal on cards at Iowa State University.
And then did a data processing program
at Kirkwood in Cedar Rapids.
And got my first job out of there
about 30 years ago or so.
So I've worked mainframe and PC, COBOL, C,
and a little bit of Python here and there.
Fantastic.
And it sounds like you're doing DevOps type things today.
Yeah, the company has, like many,
gone from on site in their own data center
to 80% or so running on AWS.
And so I get to share your same frustration
with the AWS interface in Python.
It's not always obvious how that works.
- It's updated every week.
And I know the way it is updated every week
has got to be some code gen is running somewhere
that regenerates it.
And it's just never quite discoverable, right?
It's fine once you get it working
as long as you don't touch it or have to understand it.
Which is not the sign of a fantastic API,
but it's cool.
So you get to work in AWS.
Cool, well, great to have you here.
Now, Brian, before we jump over to your first topic,
I just wanna say this episode is brought to you by Mergify.
I am psyched about what these guys are offering.
Mergify is super cool.
It's all about automating Git collaboration.
And I have a lot to say about Git,
but I wanna start with pie because I love pie.
Banana cream pie is my favorite.
I'll take a cheesecake.
Does that count as a pie?
Is that what we're talking about?
- No, we're talking about HTT, HTT pie.
And the--
- Still a good pie.
- Yeah, the website actually lists
and their read me tells you exactly how they wish you
to pronounce it right off the bat.
H-A-T-T pie.
Anyway, it's a command, it's a really cool tool.
It's a command line tool.
And I think we've covered it before for,
for interacting with, it's especially useful for APIs.
So one of the first things I install on any server on my Mac,
if I get a new one, like straight up, this thing is fantastic.
Yeah. Yeah.
And it's so fantastic that it had 60.
This is what I want to cover.
I'm sorry to laugh.
It had 60, 54000 stars on GitHub,
and then it lost it.
Didn't then it didn't.
So what a what a cliff.
So how many does it have now?
Right now, if we look, it's got.
Oh, my gosh, it's way back.
Yeah, actually this morning when I looked, it was just 16.0 thousand.
So it's gotten a hundred stars just as I was researching this.
So anyway, the that this one of the I just I guess I want to shout out to these guys of
it's a cool tool. If you're doing APIs, check it out.
And also, if you've started before restart because they they deserve it.
And what happened was they accidentally put their repo private for,
somebody was trying to make it private,
make some other test repo private.
And they accidentally put the main one private.
And if you're even private for a second, you lose all your stars.
So, warning, don't make your public stuff private.
Oops.
Wow, that is...
Yeah.
It's a good warning. It's a great tool.
but a good warning.
It does have a danger zone.
Danger zone, this is going to happen,
but unfortunately, the warning is equivalent
if there's zero followers and zero people interested in it,
or you have one of the most popular things on GitHub.
Like, it should be like, this is super duper important.
You're going to lose 54,000 GitHub stars.
Are you doing it?
- Yeah.
Well, and also, I mean, if you work with a lot of GitHub
repos and you're like, like maybe you made something public for a talk and then you're
making it private because I don't know, the talks over or whatever.
Or you just don't want to maintain something like I'm just done with this thing.
Yeah, if you're working with it a lot, maybe you've seen that warning so many times that
you're not really reading it anymore and double checking.
So I guess this is just a warning, double check it.
If you see that warning box, make sure you're on the right repo.
Indeed.
- Pat, what do you think about this?
- Yeah, it's pretty tragic.
It's kind of like those end user license agreements
where we all see them so often,
they just automatically click, I think.
- Yeah, exactly.
The confirmation dialogues and stuff.
You're like, well, I have to copy this and paste that there.
I just can't continue.
So I'm gonna just, you know,
instead of warning danger, people,
I think people see, I want to get my work done.
So click here to get my work done.
And then, oh no, what happened?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, well, Brian, I believe you have
at least helped a little bit.
David out in the audience says, "Starring it right now."
- Oh, I forgot to start also.
- You better get in there and start.
Boom, all right, plus two.
I was gonna start myself,
but I'm not logged in in my browsers
for some reason on this account.
So no starring, I have to start it later.
- Okay.
- Also, a little bit out of order,
but I wanna also just cover this other thing.
We are generally not 100% of the time
'cause there's still a little bit
of long tail stuff happening,
but generally we're moving our live stream
of the recording, the one where David said,
I'm starting right now.
Thanks for being here, David.
That recording is now moving to Tuesdays
at noon Pacific time.
So if people want to come be part of the live show,
see the video version, as well as, you know,
just make comments or whatever,
not Wednesday, Tuesdays in general,
but check for the next week, couple of weeks,
'cause it is still like some pre-scheduled stuff.
- Yeah, so how do people find out when it's coming up next?
- I would say the best way is just to subscribe
to the YouTube channel and then, you know,
I hate to say it, but push the little bell for notifications
so it'll tell you like, hey, this thing's coming up
and it'll let you know that we're gone live.
- Yep.
- Yep, I don't have a great better way.
Maybe we could do a mailing list,
but it's a little tricky.
But usually stick around on Tuesday Pacific, Tuesday noon Pacific will be recording.
Yeah, if you check YouTube once a week, you'll see it's scheduled pretty far out and then you
can get a reminder for just that one thing. You don't have to always get messages. Okay.
So this is a fun one. You mentioned some of the older programming languages.
When I was in college, I was studying chemical chemistry, chemical engineering, math, all these
different things. And as part of that, they said, you're gonna have to take a programming
class. I'm like, super, what's it gonna be like C++ or something? Remember, this is like
early 90s. So that was a good choice. And they said, no, you're going to take the most important
programming class you're ever going to take in your career, you're going to learn Fortran. I'm
like, wait a minute. No, no, no, I don't want to do that. That doesn't sound like the most important
thing ever. But nonetheless, that was one of my first courses I had to take. I went to a couple
Eventually got to take some C++, but Fortran was where it started.
So here is an article that was recommended to us by, let me make sure I get the name
right, Galin Swint.
And Galin is a PhD researcher and said, "Hey, here's a really interesting article.
The article I don't believe is by them, but it's about the sort of, I think it was something
in their lab they were talking about.
It says, the title is the counterintuitive rise of Python
and scientific computing.
Why is it counterintuitive?
Because Fortran is fast,
and what you want to do is process lots of data
and you wanna do it fast.
So here's a really interesting story
of people who were doing older stuff like Fortran and C,
sort of were forced in,
coerced into doing a little bit of Python
and accidentally made their supercomputer stuff go
like a hundred times faster or something in Python
rather than in C or rather than Fortran,
which is a counterintuitive result, right?
- Yes, it is.
- Yeah, so I think that I'll cover a few details
of this article, just pull out some highlights.
But the reason I'm bringing an article
instead of like a tool or something is
I think this would be interesting for people to share
if they're in a situation where they're like,
oh, Python is no good, this is such a slow language.
It's like doing math is like a thousand times slower than C.
I don't actually know what it is,
but it's a lot, lot slower, right?
So it goes through here and here's a couple of things.
It says, "In our laboratory, a polarizing debate rages
since has been raging since 2010.
Summarized by the question,
why are more and more time-critical scientific computations
formerly performed in Fortran
now written in Python, a slower language?"
Oh, Python, a slower language.
So Python does have the reputation of being slow
and especially around math.
I think it's honestly, it's earned it.
Unfortunately, I would really love, sidebar,
I would really love to see Python adopt something along the lines of
value types that can be boxed back to pi longs.
So like, on the stack locally, it's a number, but it gets complicated.
But I think that would actually solve a ton of stuff. Anyway.
So yeah, plain Python is slower than Fortran,
but when you do computational stuff,
you don't do plain Python.
what you do is you do NumPy, SciPy, Dask.
All of these things are written in C
with a thin coordination layer in Python
as part of its API, right?
So here's like some graph you can see on the article
and it says, here's like, you know,
10 to the one versus 10 to the minus two.
So what is that a hundred times faster
if you use Cython or Numba or NumPy and so on.
So pretty interesting.
And it also shows, guess what?
Shocker, new alert, Fortran is somewhat less popular
than it used to be.
(both laughing)
- Oh no.
- So there's an interesting story
of this project nicknamed Projector,
written around 2010, so modern in quotes, Fortran,
by somebody named Bob.
So Bob worked on this project,
And there's apparently-- let me find the numbers here.
It's like 1.5 thousand lines of Fortran code.
So a lot of Fortran code.
Like a lot of complicated math bits.
The kind you kind of don't want to touch after it works.
And it's going to do--
it's trying to project something.
Thousands of multiple-- multi-perforations
of combustion liner onto a 3D complex shape made
of millions of polygons.
So that might get complicated
when you multiply those numbers together.
And it turns out Bob soon discovered
that he was gonna use NumPy
and this thing called a KD tree
'cause there's a bunch of people working lab
that only knew Python.
So like here's a Python version you can use.
And he thought this is gonna be rough.
It's gonna be super slow.
So he went and ran it after he got it done.
And the Fortran version ran in six hours and 30 minutes,
the Python version, four minutes.
- Wow.
- So what happened?
Is Python a hundred times faster?
No, Python is easier to work with
and has many more built-in algorithms and data structures.
This KD tree thing was using a different data structure,
is a different data structure that has O log N complexity,
Whereas the Fortran version, because it's so hard to write code in,
they just wrote it in the simplest way they can make it work.
So O N and when you have billions times, millions times, thousands, O log N wins,
even if it's in a slower language.
So if the conclusion was Fortran would have been faster if they had implemented
this KD tree algorithm in it, but the people working on the, they're like
computational scientists, not PhD data structure type people, right?
Like they're already super busy just trying to do the programming
and not working on like cutting edge data structures and optimizations and stuff.
So it was very easy to try one new thing in Python,
which would have been very hard in Fortran and it was a big win.
So anyway, I think the debate about performance,
developer speed versus execution speed,
but also straight up execution speed,
I think it's really interesting in Python and it's hard to be nuanced enough.
It's always there's some little interesting wrinkle like this.
Yeah, and if you really you're going to hand code everything anyway,
it's also faster in assembly.
So just write assembly.
Here's a note that, yeah,
I've always wanted to stick to this one process or I really loved forever.
But this is interesting. I like it.
But it's sort of reads like a commercial.
So Bob was programming scientific computing,
and he was not happy in Fortran.
Bob tried Python, and now he's happy.
I think Bob unwillingly tried Python,
and eventually he was happy.
It sounded like he was dragged through it.
But I know it does read a bit like that.
But I think it's an interesting story.
Pat, what do you think?
You have a bit of a historical perspective on all this.
Yeah, I didn't go to school for chemistry,
but I bet Fortran's not popular among chemistry students,
is it?
No, not anymore, I'm sure.
I did a little benchmark the other day.
I was trying to just see how, how fast some EFS storage was on AWS versus EBS.
And so I wrote a Python script to do that and wrote 10 million records out.
And I thought, well, maybe Python is going to be slow.
So I thought I'll just whip up a quick thing in Rust here.
And as it turned out, Python was 10 times faster at that too.
on the same exact hardware.
And I'm not sure why that was.
I may not have done something that was optimal for Rust,
but there it is.
- Yeah, sure, no, that's super interesting.
I've seen Python just rip across like OS type stuff
like that, it's pretty good.
All right, well, what's your first item, Pat?
- I stumbled across this the other day.
You've had Lucas Longa on the show,
the programmer in residence,
and it looks like they're gonna get another year
due to a donation from Meta of $300,000
to the Python Software Foundation.
And it was-- - That is fantastic.
- Specifically for that purpose.
- That's a really big deal.
Yeah, Python's important to you, right?
- And like you said in the past too,
Python is very important to Meta,
Facebook's parent company now because much of their infrastructure is built on it.
PyTorch in particular, they use a lot.
So their internal implementation of Python is called Cinder apparently,
which I think I've seen mentioned a few times.
But they would like to see continued development
and they're going to fund it, which is awesome.
>> Yeah, that's really neat.
I think Cinder is a fantastic thing they've created.
And it's interesting, it's open source in the sense of,
like maybe the better term would be source open.
Like here, we're gonna put this out here.
We don't expect any contributions and we don't,
we don't wanna put it out there as like a project
to grow on its own, but we think it might inspire people.
So here's the source.
But what they have contained in there is amazing.
There's just so many optimizations and different things.
I think they might even have that value type
I discussed and I can't remember but yeah, that's a really cool project that they're working on.
So this is great. I think
Lukas Schlenger has gone sort of full circle, right? He was
independent that he was at Instagram for a while, which is part of Meta and then left to
sort of do his own thing and found his way to this
developer in residence and now Meta is sending money so that he stays there. That's like an interesting circle, I think.
Yeah
That's good. I
It's a little seems tenuous though that we have it at like one year at a time that we don't know
We don't know if we're gonna have a developer in residence longer than another year, but it's like a postdoc
Hopefully it's a game of tag with Microsoft coming next or something. Yeah, exactly
That'd be great. And I think there are a couple of organizations doing that
So I know that there was a talk about having multiple folks sort of participating in that group, which would be great
because I know there's way more work than Lukas can do on himself.
He's quite busy.
Yeah.
Alvaro in the audience has a fine name proposal here.
The PSF developer in residence should be called the PSF DunderDir,
underscore, underscore, D-I-R, underscore, underscore.
I hereby am opening a pep.
Well done, Alvaro.
I'm just kidding.
I want to give him more work for something silly like that.
But that's pretty awesome, the PSF DunderDir.
Cool. Well, thank you, Pat.
Now, before we move on to the next item,
let me tell you all about our sponsor today.
And like I said, I'm really excited about this.
I'm actually doing a bunch of work on some Git presentations.
And so I'm just trying to think about what's the workflow with Git
and how can we work better,
especially doing team type stuff.
So Mergify is a service that will help you
and especially your team be one of the best
be way better with Git.
So it's an amazing tool to make you and your team
be more productive with GitHub in particular.
It's all about leveling up pull requests.
So some of the features of their platform
that you hook into your repositories
are automatic merges.
So you can set up conditions for an automatic merge
and Mergify will take care of merging the PR
as soon as it's ready and passes all the details.
There's automatic updates.
So if you have multiple pull requests,
it'll merge the pull requests serially on top of each other,
so there's no way to introduce a regression.
There's also merge queues.
So if you've got like a long CI process
and things are slow or you've got lots of code,
you can set up priorities
and have the most important ones merge fix,
like bug requests or bug fixes,
especially if they're security fixes.
They go right here, right at the front.
Do those now.
So that's awesome.
They also have something called backports.
So Mergify will copy the pull request to other branches
once it's merged, if you set that up,
so that you can ship bug fixes to multiple branches,
feature branches and whatnot, automatically,
or even older versions, right?
Version 1.0 of your app versus 2.0, 2.2, whatever,
have those automatically merge those bug requests,
bug fixes in.
Super cool.
Mergify does all these things automatically
that you would otherwise have to do manually.
So you save time, you and your team
will focus on projects that matter the most.
Mergify is coordinated with any CI
and it's fully integrated into GitHub.
They also have a startup program
that can give your company up to $21,000 of credits.
So if you're doing a startup
and you want to use them to help grow,
you'll reach out to them for sure.
Do that by going to pythonbytes.fm/mergify,
Sign up for a demo and get started.
The link is at the top of your podcast player show notes.
So just click it.
Thanks to Mergify for supporting our show.
Very cool project. - Nice.
- Yeah.
All right, Brian, what's the next one here?
- Well, we were talking about data science a little bit
and people using Python for data science,
but one of the things that people use
when they're doing data science,
plus other stuff and DevOps and whatever,
is dashboards, dashboards in Python.
and that's one of the powerful reasons to use it.
And there's, so there was a,
there's a couple things I wanted to discuss
around dashboards.
Both of them come via suggestions from Mark Skov Madsen.
So thanks Mark.
First is the easiest way to create interactive dashboard
in Python.
Obviously it's their opinion,
but it does look pretty easy,
is to use a HV plot dot interactive.
So this is an article that talks about how to do this.
And it really looks nice.
This panel looks pretty good.
- Yeah, that's great.
- Pulling data out, you got dark and light
and you've got the controls on one side.
So this is just using some pre-canned data
but you can use obviously your own data.
But the article is pretty short
and one of the things I love about it of course
is it's got a animated GIF to show you exactly
what you're getting into.
And then also a video.
So one of the authors, Sophia,
just reads the, like pretty much goes through the article
and talks about it and shows the demo of everything.
So that's nice.
And it's only like six minutes.
I was watching it this morning.
So really cool if you want to try.
And so HVPlot is part of the HoloViz family of tools.
So a lot of people are already using that,
or if you're not, check that out.
It's pretty cool stuff.
- Yeah, this looks great.
- I always wanna have good use cases for this.
And I just, I don't find myself doing lots of dashboards
and stuff, but every time I see them, I'm like,
well, what can I build a dashboard for?
That would be great to have.
- Well, so I have some use cases for dashboards,
but I don't really don't wanna spend a lot of time on it.
And I think even though this is like six minute video
of how to get through it,
I think that probably I'd have to set aside
maybe a half day to figure out something to get it usable.
But it does show that once you understand what you're doing,
you can throw together dashboards pretty quickly
and be able to, well, one of the, we didn't,
in the demo, one of the dashboard items was,
in the controls is like,
let's say you've got a whole bunch of columns
or some different elements in a row that you,
or in a column that you wanna filter out.
So there's ways to filter your data
so that you're looking at different stuff.
And I was like, I have exact use case for this.
So I'm pretty excited.
The other thing around plots is maybe a HV plot
or dashboards is maybe HV plot
isn't the right thing for you.
Well, we've got another thing is the PyData Global 2021.
There's a video stream up on YouTube
called Python Dashboarding Shootout and Showdown.
And so this is a different,
a whole bunch of different presenters
talking about building dashboards in Python
using either dash or panel or voila, or streamlet.
So watch different people do it.
So if you wanna watch some,
use something other than HP plot, watch this video.
One of the things I love about this
is if you're only looking forward to one of them,
one of the commenters on this video
put up hyperlinks to each of the different sections.
You can just hop right to the video part
that you want to watch.
It's pretty cool.
Yeah, that's great.
Yeah, that's good.
I love these dashboards.
It's definitely one of their powers.
Pat, do you do anything with them?
Sorry, Brian.
I got you out of--
jump on in.
We do have some pre-built dashboards
to monitor the EKS cluster in Grafana and Elastic.
But this is another option.
it'd be good to do something ad hoc.
If it's a quick and dirty, maybe I could whip one out.
- So Brian, do you just like grab a pandas data frame
and then make it interactive?
(laughing)
- Not quite, but it's almost.
I mean, this is built to go really closely
with pandas data frames.
So the code is, you know, you're doing some filtering,
some pipeline processing, like group buys
and selecting in to see what index you're gonna use.
And then, yeah, it's pretty much interactive at that point,
but the code around this is building the widgets
for the controls.
- You gotta define the UI
and how people interact with it, got it.
- Yeah, but it's pretty easy.
I can't imagine, I mean, it's not obvious,
'cause so you have to kind of,
it's good to watch a tutorial or something,
but it's also not difficult.
And then putting it together.
- Yeah, so most of the code in here
is not the interactive plot
because that's kind of already happens,
but it's the--
- The widgets. - The widgets.
- Got it, cool, thanks.
All right, I think you all will be excited about this.
I think this is quite a neat project.
Now let's see, this was sent over by Dave Chavelle,
or actually is both sent over and is by Dave Chavelle.
So, I don't know, Brian, do you ever use entry points
and Python packages, you know, so you can set up,
can pip install a package,
and then if you have that Python active,
then you can just type a CLI command
that is one of the entry points there.
Do you know what I'm talking about?
- Yeah, I do that all the time.
- That's great, but there is some overhead to set it up,
right, I've got to install it as a package and whatnot.
This project called SourcePy allows you
to basically turn any function into a CLI command,
a straight CLI command in one line.
So let me show you, talk about,
and it doesn't involve packages and installing
or anything like that.
So imagine you've got some file here
and it's got a function, just a def function,
pygrep is the example here, and it has a pattern,
which is actually a regular expression pattern,
note the typing, has grep data,
which is a list of text inputs.
So could be a string or something,
but it could also be like something piped or standard in
or something along those lines, right?
So if I have this script that just does that work
with those type assigned data,
and I have source py installed,
I can say source this file here.
And what it will do is it'll actually add up the,
it'll expose those functions like PyGrep and so on.
So then I can just type PyGrep
and it'll tell me how it works.
And somewhere in here, where's the example of running it?
Oh, right here, I think it is.
So what you can do is you can just run PyGrep against,
now as a function, right?
As a CLI function.
So it has all sorts of cool features.
For example, it has this type handling.
So type hints that we talked about
can be used to coerce inputs off the command line
into like integers and patterns and IO streams
for like files and standard and such.
Let's see, it just takes basically any function like this
and turns it into something to run on the shell.
And then you can also go down and you can do,
like, I believe there's some sort of class-based way
to work with it and so on, but yeah, this is pretty neat.
What do you think?
I guess I'm confused at how it works with the normal source command.
That is a good question.
Like how does it not break normal source?
Yeah.
That's a good question.
It is a good question.
Like it doesn't replace it for a while.
You've got it installed or does it extend it somehow?
Yeah, I don't know.
I haven't looked at it enough to understand
how it either coordinates or overrides source.
- Sorry.
- No, it's a great question.
Yeah, I haven't played with it, but it's really important.
You would want to know
'cause you wanna break your regular source step.
I'm sure you could alias it if for some reason
it conflicted, but I don't know.
Go ahead.
- So I think this would be really helpful for,
aside from that, if that's all working great,
then aside from that, I think it's a very useful way
to have like a handful of little tools for a project
to be able to use that.
If you're trying to share it with other people,
I kind of think packaging it the right way
to have entry points is probably the right way to go.
- Yeah, if you wanna do a more formal, like a PIPX style,
but this feels way more ad hoc, right?
Like Pat was talking about his little script
that he built to test some stuff.
He could run this and then just call those functions
as if they were built into batches
or whatever.
- Definitely.
- Also worth pointing out,
it has built in native async support.
So if you have async functions and you source it,
then you can just call it as if it was a regular
command line command and it still just takes it and runs.
And Kim Van Wick, who's been a co-host here before,
has a clever thought.
He says, "I suspect it wraps the normal source command
"and hands it over to the normal source if it isn't Python."
which seems like a good idea.
- Probably.
- Yeah, probably.
Although, like I said,
I haven't really looked at the mechanism there.
But this looks like a cool project.
It's got all sorts of supported types
like JSON and unions and date time objects
and all kinds of stuff.
So check it out if you do a bunch of kind of ad hoc stuff
with Python on the command prompt terminal.
Pat, how's this strike you?
I know that this might touch some of the things
you're doing in your world.
- Right, yeah, just yesterday one of the guys
was contacting me because he needed to cycle through
a list of addresses to hit an API,
and this could be something you'd use like that,
consume this file and hit the API with each example
and away we go.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, this looks great for putting little,
making those little scripts you build with Python,
like literally scripts, I know a lot of people
call everything Python scripts,
but this is really for those types of apps, right?
- A single file script.
- Yeah, yeah, a single file thing,
not like a 20,000 line Flask app, right?
That I think starts to stretch the terms
of what script might mean,
but this is exactly for those things.
- Yeah.
- All right, what's your final one, Pat?
- This is similar to what you just covered, actually.
You've talked, I think, a little bit about it before.
Conch shell combines the best of Bash shell and Python
in the Linux terminal.
>> This is way more than what I covered.
This is like another level here.
Tell us about it.
>> It is.
It takes it to another level, yeah.
I ran across it on itsfoss, which is a nice site
for open source type things.
In a nutshell, what it does is provide you
with a new shell where, as they demonstrate here,
you can use straight Python.
You can import JSON, for example,
and define a variable or a table,
print that out, and format it, the length function here.
But you can also then mix in regular bash functions
where we, for example, here it curls from a website.
The result comes back, and the length function
tells you the length of that curl.
>> How interesting. That's a little bit
like almost like a Jinja Django template,
but in your terminal,
you put a little dollar to say,
here's a bit of code to run on the shell.
>> Yeah.
>> Shells run here.
>> The one famous statement they have is,
I always forget how to do a for loop in Bash,
but in Python, it's pretty easy.
They have a rule,
that it evaluates to Python first.
If it evaluates to Python, it executes as Python.
If it doesn't, then it more or less executes as Bash.
And I do have a link we could put in the show notes,
too, to a video demonstration from their home page.
And the guy does a spectacular demonstration
with autocompletes, and they have
what they call contributions.
And that also begins with an X. So it's
like a plug-in or an add-on, but it's a contribution.
And it is Git-aware, and it is virtual environment-aware.
It sounds like a killer environment,
but it would take some getting used to.
I have a lot of muscle memory to overcome,
to take full advantage, I think.
- That's cool.
Brian, have you played with this?
- You know, I tried to play with it a couple years ago,
but now I haven't, but I do want to.
And I think one of the things,
I didn't give it a fair shake.
I think it would be good to just say,
for a week, maybe, I'm gonna try to just use this
instead of pulling up my normal terminal,
just to see if I can get used to it.
- That's the thing, I think you have to
immerse yourself, probably.
And it is about five years old.
I think it's fairly mature.
- Yeah, and also the less I write bash scripts,
the more I wish that bash scripts
were more like Python scripts.
So now they are.
- Yeah, now they are.
- Yeah, this is great.
A good find and something I've also wanted to play with,
but haven't, so.
- Nice.
- Brian, you got any extras
you want to share with the people?
- I don't this week.
- I thought I didn't, but then I did.
I just want to do a quick follow-up.
Okay.
I was just thinking about a couple of episodes ago
where we talked about the March Madness Package tournament
that Chris May had sent in.
And I was thinking, you know, it's probably done now, isn't it?
Let's see who won.
Yeah.
Because I think we were at the point where we were at the Elite 8, weren't we?
Or, yeah, I believe we were at the Elite 8.
So we had a showdown between NumPy and Pip.
NumPy crushed it.
We had a showdown between pandas and requests.
Pandas crushed it and it was an all data science.
Finale and NumPy and pandas with the head to head to head and it was
pandas 55% taking the winner. So I just want to do a quick follow up on that.
Very important news. We have a champion.
It's good, but try using pandas without NumPy. That'll be tough.
Yeah, indeed.
Do you have anything else you want to give a shout out to?
I do have one extra.
Quick like.
It's easy to bash Microsoft, but they've been involved.
They bought GitHub.
They have lots of our Python core developers working for them.
And they have this rewards program, and they want you to use Bing search, obviously.
But what you can do is choose a charity to give points to.
You can also get like a $5 gift certificate to AWS or Amazon or something for yourself
if you'd rather.
And every day you just kind of click on these little links and I just got five points or
10 points and, oh, now we got to do a quiz.
I'll come back to that later.
And as you do this, you accumulate more points each day and those points then can go to your
charity.
I did the Red Cross for a while,
and I did the CDC during our lockdown year there.
And you can also donate to the Python Software Foundation.
- That's cool.
- That's a way we can all contribute.
- So if you're Googling stuff with Bing,
go ahead and set up the rewards.
- Googling stuff with Bing.
(laughing)
- If you're Googling stuff with Bing,
set up your rewards to go to the PSF.
You might as well, right?
- That's right.
- Fantastic.
- Awesome.
All right, well, thanks.
That's a good one.
I got a joke for you all here,
and I know Brian, you do as well,
but I feel like this one,
I better take this one
because I don't feel you're in a position
to make an unbiased decision here
'cause it's so close to your heart.
- Okay. - All right?
Okay.
So this one is over on the Reddit Programming Humor one,
and it poses the question,
what seems like a straightforward question
for a piece of software?
How do you exit?
Vim.
(laughing)
And it types, there's some, you know,
couple interesting options here.
You get colon exit.
7% of the people think you type colon exit, they're wrong.
You type colon wq,
which I guess if you wanna make changes, cool.
Save your changes and exit.
You could do, most people got that one.
And then you could do colon quit, 7% again.
You could click the close button.
Hard for a non UI app, but.
Or almost 20% of the people said,
you know what, the way you restart Vim,
this horrible thing, I can't get out of it.
I'm gonna restart the computer.
I'm trapped in here, I just, I gotta get out.
I tried command Z or control Z and it just background it.
Now what's it doing?
It keeps coming back and yeah.
- I think people clicked restart the computer to be funny.
- I know they did.
I thought, and I pulled it up as a joke to be funny as well.
but they are.
- Yeah, no.
I don't know, the close button works for me.
I don't know.
- Well, it closes the terminal, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
So.
- But you gotta say,
do you wanna terminate the running program?
Right, you get like a warning that you're doing it wrong.
You forgot the code.
- I'm with you, Brian, I'm a BIM guy.
(laughing)
- It's not hard.
And actually I haven't, I don't use straight Vim
except for on the command line.
You're right, I guess I do that on the command line,
but I do, I essentially use Vim
within PyCharm or VS Code as well,
but yeah, Vim emulation.
Okay, so I wanted to share a joke also
because I just thought this was so funny
I could stop laughing this morning.
So ran across this tweet by Mediocre Superheroes.
It's a little cartoon thing.
So, so the guy, you know, finds a genie,
genie says three wishes.
Hey, can I wish for more wishes?
Not with me, no.
Well, fine.
I wish you couldn't count.
(laughing)
Genie, done.
How many wishes do you have left?
A billion.
That sounds right.
- I love it.
- Anyway, that was funny.
- An invented boy around an old joke.
- That's great.
- Anyway.
- Oh, quick, a bit of audience feedback as well.
Henry Schreiner says, "Restart the computer?
Isn't that how you get out of Emacs?"
Also true.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, what key chord do I hit to get out of that one?
Fantastic.
- It's probably control something.
- Yeah, I bet it involves a control K something somehow.
Anyway, thanks for everything, Brian.
Thanks for being here, thanks for the jokes.
And Pat, it was great you could join us.
Thanks for coming. - Yeah, thanks, Brett.
- Thanks for having me on, guys.
- You bet. - Bye, everybody.
- Bye, everyone.